Title: Gackling Moon

----

Author: Patrick Stuart

----

Datepublished: 2019-07-31

----

Forthcoming: true

----

Cover:

- pb329x5.jpg

----

Bookimages:

- >
  works-services-work-graphic-design-itsnicethat-02.jpg

----

Description: This fascinating book will stay with children every time they gaze up at the night sky. Through vivid pictures and engaging explanations, children will learn about many of the Moon’s mysteries: what makes it look like a silvery crescent one time and a chalk-white ball a few nights later, why it sometimes appears in the daytime, where it gets its light, and how scientists can predict its shape on your birthday a thousand years from now. Next Time You See the Moon is an ideal way to explain the science behind the shape of the Moon and bring about an evening outing no child—or grown-up—will soon forget.

----

Blurb: Next Time You See the Moon is an ideal way to explain the science behind the shape of the Moon and bring about an evening outing no child—or grown-up—will soon forget.

----

Purchasingoptions: 

----

Fulltext:

Gackling Moon

By Patrick Stuart

The Moonlands

At the ends of the understood earth, trapped between contending seas, crazed with fractured realities and bathed in the glow of a mad satellite, itself reflecting light from unreal suns hidden in the shadow of the night, lie the lands of the Gackling Moon.

Guarded from the North by the Plains of Anaesthetic Fire, the fierce Whetstone Ridge and the unnerving para-reality of the Painted Plain, from the West by the Vermillion Sea, the flower-strewn surface of which borders on a murderous otherwold of mad red light, and from the East by the surging seas of the Reach, an ocean whos opposite waves tickle the beaches of the ever-mythical Dark Continent, the Lands of the Moonlands are not an easy place to reach.

Yet some do find their way there, for this realm of cracked realities is the origin of rare resources and secret wisdom. From the strange drugs of the Asbestos Bedouin to the magical apples of the Whetstone Ridge, the fictional weapons of the Picts of the Painted Plain, to the secrets of the Great Goblin Market in the Necropolis of Glass, to Narcissolis, the ever-shifting city at its centre, the Moonlands hold treasures and secrets of such rare and inexpressible strangeness that in any other place, possession of the smallest of them may draw the eye, burnish reputations and summon awe.

For all their deep differences and continual conflicts, those who populate these lands are united by two things. Firstly; absolute terror of the Apocalypse Wasps; nightmarish invaders from the Red World beneath and beyond the Vermillion Sea, who despise all life and wish to lay eggs in everyone. And secondly, their shared experience of the light of the Gackling Moon; for the orb which rolls over these lands in the night is of no ordinary kind, and such is the enchantment in its light that all beneath its grin must keep care of their calendar, for to leave shelter on a cloudless night, without noting the face of the moon, can summon doom.

Doom, or adventure.


The Gackling Moon Itself



A smashed moon for a smashed land, crazed and cratered like a pale cracked mirror in the sky, a blind, moaning moon with a broken face. Such is the shape of the Gackling Moon.

Legends, myths and imagined origins abound, but the most commonly accepted theory of its nature is that each cracked fragment of the face of the Gackling Moon reflects upon the world, the light of a differing sun.

And each mosaick’d slice does glow with a different hue, so that the Full Mad Face of the Gackling Moon is a tatterdemalion chequerboard of gash-bright light from incomprehensible stars.

Each wavelength of eldritch light carries with it a little of the power and strangeness of the reality from which it shines. The moon is mirror to a range of cosmic lamps, and in their light, the physics, logic and reality so illuminated must match and balance that of the emitting sun.

These lights have magical properties, each different, and all comprehensively intermixed and blended in the face of the Gackling Moon.

As the shadow of the real cuts slowly over the smile of the Gackling Moon, day by day and week by week, revealing and disguising more or less each night, the balance and composition of the unreal light shifts and alters, different colours matching, mixing, conflicting and combining as the month drifts by.

Though the moon is crazed, the arrangement of its fragments does not change, and so the people of the Moonlands know at least one clear moon-boon; the cycles of its witch-light are predictable and known, and the effects of each face of the Gackling Moon are understood and accounted for by all who live beneath its glow.


Moon Rules

Even in madness, there is law. The following rules always apply to the light of the Gackling Moon unless specifically stated otherwise.

* The magical effects of the moon count only in direct moonlight.

* Moon Effects last only as long as moonlight shines directly upon the effected being.

* Moon Effects only work at night. They end at dawn. The moon is sometimes visible in the sky by day, this moon has no magical properties.

* Depending on the weather, clouds may occlude the moon. This can be decided by the DM but for a random decision try this method;

First hour of moonlight – roll a D6

1-2 Full cloud cover.
3-4 Clouds scud across the face of the moon.
5-6 The moon is fully visible.

Every subsequent hour the cloud cover has a one-third chance of changing.

* The population of the lands of the Gackling Moon are familiar with its many faces and know what it’s various powers can do.

The simplest response to potentially dangerous moonlight is to stay indoors or hide beneath shade. Other, more complex responses will be discussed either in the description for that particular face of the moon or in reference to individual cultures and populations.



Phases of the Gackling Moon




1. A Fine Gackling Moon

Perhaps not the worst moon, but certainly the most powerful and most feared

Light

The full, mad face of the Fine Gackling Moon is entirely visible, staring down at reality with its wild eyes and crooked smile, its face a mosaic of reflected sunlight from alien realms.

The colour of its light is an indescribable nullfire which veils all beneath it with the texture of a dream

Powers

One - Anyone looking directly into the face of the Fine Gackling Moon will go quite mad and not know who they are for as long is its light shines.

Two - Anyone in direct moonlight can change shape with nothing more than a silent thought.

* Women can change into Animals.
* Men into Stones.
* Murderers into weapons.
* Goblins into animals, humans, objects or plants.
* Animals into Humans.
* And Children into Goblins.

If the transformed individual forgets who or what they are, or is not in daylight as the sun rises the transformation can become permanent, at least until the next Fine Gackling Moon.

Three - The Fine Gackling Moon will grant each individual a single wish, once in their life. 

* The effects of this wish are limited, usually it involves the moon moving something under its purview around. Often after changing its shape.
* To wish you must look directly at the Fine Gackling Moon, meaning you will lose your identity and go mad.
* These wishes go horribly wrong.

Lunaculture

Being a time of madness and transformation, almost all sane cultures, and even Goblins, obsessively avoid the light of this moon, even if the sky is overcast. The danger of being caught in its light and of seeing its face is simply too great.

Three simple rules are beaten into every sane brain in the land;

1. Never go out in a Gackling Moon.
2. Never look at a Gackling Moon.
3. And never, ever, wish on a Gackling Moon.

However, nothing is ever simple, and mistakes, emergencies, desperation or malice can lead to moon-exposure and its results.

If a family or community member goes missing during a Fine Gackling Moon, then any altered, extra or eldritch items are sought out in the day and guarded so they might be restored.

Men and Murderers can be easily located, being stone and weapons, each incapable of individual movement.

Women can be hard to find in animal form, and children extremely hard to find in Goblin form.

And almost anything or anyone new to a community encountered after a Gackling Moon may be a transformed Goblin.



Situations

* A family looking for help moving and guarding a strange stone which they say is a relative, they want to place it somewhere where it will see the sun coming up
* A family, village or Kin-group likewise worried about a common animal they think is their wife, mother or grandmother.
* The discovery of a ‘Moon Blade’. These transformed murderers always have magical or remarkable powers and possession and use of them always leads to discord, horror and strife.
* The discovery of a Moon Blade indicating someone in the village is a murderer.
* A culture group taking radical action in forcing someone to transform under a Gackling Moon to prove they are not a murderer.
* Someone falling in love only to discover that the object of their affection is a transformed Goblin or Animal, and perhaps attempting to make sure this is undiscovered and they do not turn back.
* A family having to control and take care of a Goblin who they say (and hope) is their transformed child.
* Moon-Ruin, the results of someone wishing on a Gackling Moon leading to people and places being swept up into the air and re-distributed, people and things being transformed in strange ways, outbreaks of particular madness and delusion and all manner of other strangeness.
* Someone depressed, angry or alienated actually wants to forget themselves and transform into something else, permanently. In the case of a self-assured adult it can be hard to work out if this is something you should try to stop or not.

Everyone sighs in relief when a Gackling Moon finally occludes into the by-comparison, quite safe and sane, Painted Moon.



2. A Painted Moon

Light

The Painted Moon is a mosaic of glimmering colours like the fragments of a gem catching light. 

Images seem to dance through the air like a procession of bright people winding their way through the air, or like fireflies travelling up, up, up to the surface of the Painted Moon.


Powers

One - For those who sleep directly in the light of this moon, their dreams will either migrate, (5 in 6 chance) or, more rarely, become active and tangible illusions around them. (1 in 6 chance).

Migrated Dreams; those who experience this swap dreams with someone else nearby having roughly the same dream.

Embodied Dreams; those who experience this have their dreams become visible around them, like a projected image.

The only significant physical danger from such Embodied Dreams is if very powerful or very scared people have nightmares, they can effectively act as monsters.

If Magic-Users have spells memorised while they dream beneath a Painted Moon, these will become active as fully-mobile independent beings with forms and intentions shaped by their natures.

In any case, waking the individual, or any absence of moonlight, ends the effect immediately.




Lunaculture

Almost all of the dangers of a Painted Moon can be avoided by simply not sleeping under its light, and for those witnessing potentially dangerous embodied dreams, any possible threat can be escaped with nothing more than a moon-shade, or by waiting for day.

The main dangers of a Painted Moon are social and psychological. At times, the inadvertent swapping or sharing of dreams between community members can cause social ructions.

Situations

* A pair of young lovers setting out to sleep under a Painted Moon in the hopes that they will swap dreams.
* An argument or fight between people due to information they think they received while experiencing someone else’s dream (i.e. someone does/does not love their spouse, is lying about something, is subconsciously into some freaky stuff etc).
* A monster or dangerous situation which has sprung up around an unaware sleeper, and which may not be immediately obvious as a dreamed illusion.
* An encounter with a ‘living spell’ sprung from the mind of a sleeping Mage, the spell has its own personality and knows it will only ‘live’ for a short time, this can make them quite capricious (though not necessarily evil). They may not reveal what they are.
* A group of edgy young men setting out to sleep under the light of a Painted Moon because it’s very-slightly somewhat dangerous and boundary breaking.


3. A Sorrowing Moon

Light 

This sad moon casts all beneath it in a sombre pall. All colours fade, the silver of the moonlight turns to grey.

Black pools of shadow hang from eves and branches like fuliginous cloaks.


Powers

This moon presents no physical threats and at least one great advantage. Nevertheless its extremely melancholic glow makes it a significant danger for those suffering loss, or of a naturally gloomy temperament.

One - In the light of a Sorrowing Moon, all become deeply sad. Grief can be dangerously intense

Two - It is impossible to joke or laugh beneath its light.

Three - Once you start crying it can be impossible to stop.

Even Goblins are made sombre by this moon. Unable to have fun they just trudge in endless circles in the night or break into peoples homes to clean them, do their accounts and weed the garden. Goblins hate this moon.

Four - This moon gifts animals in its light intelligence and speech. However, only the nocturnal ones are active and all of the animals are saddened by the cruelty of nature and their own brief awareness of it so they either sit there weeping or just cry in their sleep.



Lunaculture

The chief dangers of the Sorrowing Moon are psychological. Anyone suffering grief or depression is strongly urged not to go out in a Sorrowing Moon, as they may be stricken with terminal gloom.

Likewise, sensitive carnivores are advised not to go beneath its light as witnessing the sadness of the animals may turn them into vegans. 

Children are kept out of this moon as hearing farm animals cry in the night, and witnessing them form words and make statements in dreams or sad nightmares can be disturbing for them.

This can be a good time to question animals, if they are thought to possess needed information, though talking through their tiredness and sadness can be tiresome.

Conversely, a Sorrowing Moon is a great time to escape, confound, oppose or defy Goblins as any under its light will be stricken with a mental heaviness and lose utterly their maniacal genius and deranged courage.

Situations

* Investigators tracing a crime systemically drag every animal in a village into the moonlight and interrogate it, but are gradually worn down by the consuming sorrows of the beasts.
* Dumb kids decide to fuck with some Goblins by hurling school homework at them in the night, adults who realise the Goblins will take revenge under the coming Ruinous moon try to stop them.
* The weeping and wailing of farm animals disturbs as you pass in the night.
* A favourite pet or animal has quite a lot to say, and is extremely depressed.
* Suicide watch by the home of a grieving widower are themselves crying.
* Weeping housewife watched glum Goblins skilfully but gloomily tend to her pumpkins in the night.



4. A Ruinous Moon

Light

A classic silvery-white moonlight with a tinge of sapphire-blue. Slightly brighter and more directional than ‘average’ moonlight

Shadows are depthless pools.

Powers

One - Under this moon the ghosts of those slain by mortal hands seek out their killer.

Depending on the strength of the personality behind the Ghost, may simply follow them accusing them of the crime, or may pursue more direct vengance.

Two - Shadows cast by the light of this moon sometimes rebel against their caster if offended.

They escape and run away into a great Parliament of Shadows. If you can find this Parliament it can lift curses, deliver knowledge or amend mistakes.


Lunaculture

A moon of revenge and the accounting of old wrongs, where many lose their shadows and others are harrowed by ghosts. Still, a Ruinous Moon is not particularly dangerous for most people, providing they treat their shadows kindly, and are not killers.

Criminals, murderers, but also soldiers and executioners, will all try to avoid this moon. As will anyone who has ever killed a Wizard or Magic-User.

The possibility of exposing a murderer or discovering the Parliament of Shadows provokes certain groups and people to undertake unusual actions in the light of this moon.



Situations

* A legal trial held out in the open, beneath moonlight. If the accused is guilty, the ghost of their victim will arrive to accuse them.
* Knights or adventurers in combat with their own shadows after offending them.
* A potent warrior trapped beneath shade by fear of the numerous ghosts who will seek them out should they step out under the light of the Ruinous Moon.
* A battle between the ghost of a Wizard and their killers, who foolishly let themselves be caught under moonlight.
* A pilgrim or group of adventurers who seek the Parliament of Shadows, either to regain their own shadows or to solve some irresolvable mystery or danger.
* The Parliament of Shadows itself.




5. A New Moon

Joy to the world the New Moon is here!

Here are the safest and most secure handful of nights in all the lands of the Gackling Moon. With the moons face totally occluded, there are no magical effects or strange lunar dangers at all.

Many settlements have night-festivals to mark this time of the month in which all the citizens, who might otherwise have some reason to avoid the moonlight, walk about beneath the light of the stars without fear or restraint.

Night markets and late openings are common for these few eves.

Yet all make ready and prepare for perhaps the worst moon of all, which comes soon….



6. A Wasp Moon

Light

The light of the Wasp Moon is a virulent, violent red that washes over bodies like crimson ink and stains reality like a charnel house. 

The Red Wasp Moon breeds, and feeds on, anger, resentment and wrath. Under its light people become their red, wounded selves, all of the harms of their life visible as vivid flesh hacks and raw damage.


Powers

One - Meat rots in the red light and births red flies which swarm in the night.

Two - Hatred breathes out like a caustic gas which cuts like a knife.

Three - Bad thoughts squirm like red eggs under the skin, then burst like buboes, releasing the poisonous red wasps of wrath.

These wasps buzz with a high-pitched keening sound like blades on glass, they are aggressive and their sting is painful to the point of being disabling. The pain only dies with dawn.

Four - Those who swear an oath of vengeance to this moon grow buzzing wasp wings which burst from wounds in their back and carry them towards the object of their hate at incredible speed.


Lunaculture

More even than the Gackling Moon, this is an orb to be avoided at all costs. All pray for clouds to cover this most poisonous selene. Since this moon is of aid only by those who wish to do harm, and since it shows all under it in the most terrible light, travel under it is abjured, regardless of circumstance. 

Culturally, it’s considered reasonable to miss any appointment or meeting, to avoid any duty or to break any oath or promise, if to meet or fulfil them requires that you walk under a Wasp Moon.

Doors and windows are locked. Children are terrorised by tales to be sure they do not leave the house.

Cursed are those who choose openly to walk under the Wasp Moon. They are villains all.

Situations

* A wrath-filled wanderer squats like a rank encrusted hive of hate, spitting out wasps.
* Dark towns and empty villages with every door and window battened tight and all valued animals under shade. Few doors will open, regardless of the circumstance.
* Evil men walking freely beneath the Red Moon like grinning flensed corpses, followed by swarms of their own bad thoughts.
* The terrible buzz of wings in the night air and a hated enemy left behind long ago swoops upon you in a moment.
* The bodies of friends caught in the Wasp Moon by mistake, who’s argument turned to horror, their thoughts bursting from them as flies and their breath slicing each other like knives.
* Bodies in the red light, impossible to tell if corpses or sleeping men.
 









7. A Goblin Moon

Light

The Goblin Moon is a crazy facepunching GREEEEEEN. 

Moving bodies to hop and skip. Faces look like carnival masks. The green of leaves, grasses, and goblin faces, grows pale. Those which match exactly the light of the moon look white.

Shadows are a dusky, dusty red.


Powers

One - Lies are always believed.

Two - Locks don't work. 

Three - The strong cannot restrain those weaker than themselves with bonds or chains.

Four - It’s easy to hide in the shadows cast from this moon if you are hiding from someone specifically looking for you.

Five - One anyone laughs, it takes serious effort for them to stop. Weak or distracted people can die laughing, so can Goblins.


Lunaculture

While the Goblin Moon is a troublesome one, people usually view it with a degree of resignation. As bad as Goblins are, they are mainly into theft, chaos and mischief, rather than murder and death. At least it’s not the Wasp Moon.

This Moon massively encourages thieves and most settlements have curfews, nearly as serious as those for the Wasp Moon, to prevent anyone from walking abroad under it.

Unlike the Wasp Moon, this curfew is actually policed by MoonCops, out looking for Goblins and other nere-do-wells. (and usually not finding them, but at least it’s something.)

Wealthy homeowners often have secondary doors on their houses, built inside, beneath the eaves, out of the light of the Moon, so they can actually be locked. Poorer families often team up and sleep in each others houses to keep watch.

Particularly useful for this are children as, being weaker than a Goblin, and most thieves, they cannot be restrained and can therefore warn their family if they sense anything awry. 

Many children are bribed to stay up all night over a Goblin Moon, and many of the caffeine addicts of this land can date their preferences to heady, adventuresome nights beneath the Goblin Moon.



Situations

* Goblins creeping in the shadows.
* MoonCops stalking, poking shadows with poking sticks, running after Goblins both real and unreal.
* Goblins stealing trash to build a giant ladder in a crazed desire to reach the Goblin Moon.
* Caffeinated children running about screaming dirty jokes at empty corners. Goblins have a terrible sense of humour so making them laugh, and keep laughing is a key way to force them to expose themselves.
* Goblins flying about on the back of huge owls, causing trouble.
* Goblins poking people with sticks for fun.
* Goblins paired up on each others shoulders, wearing long coats, pretending to be MoonCops as part of some insane scam.
* Goblins building giant lunar capacitors to store the energy of the Goblin Moon in special glass vials.
 






8. A Forgotten Moon

Light

A glistering crystalline gleam highlights every edge. The air hums with a kind of static energy. Jewels and the edges of blades sparkle. 

Shadows are a lambent blue, like lantern-lit velvet.

Moths fill the air like stars and land like snowfields in its light. Huge moths seems to orbit around the moon itself. Storms and high winds blow them away like hurricanes of tumbling leaves but they always return.

Powers

One - Any secret whispered under the light of a Forgotten Moon will be overheard by a moth. The moth will then carry this secret to another and whisper it into their ear.

Two - Those who sacrifice an Owl to the Forgotten moon may summon one of the huge, Moon-Circling Moths from the upper air. This Moth will carry them to any place beneath the moons light where they have already been

Three - Rumours say that, very occasionally, a large moth will arrive from the deep past and whisper into an ear, requesting a single drop of blood. If this is given, they will relate a secret from ancient history.


Lunaculture

Obviously, a Forgotten Moon is a bad time to conspire, as any secret could easily escape. Because of this, in many cultures, some rituals, contracts and agreements can only take place under a Forgotten Moon.

The ease of transport via giant moth means people are accustomed to both receiving visitors from their past, and to visiting old places known to them, during these nights.

But sometimes dark things live in the past as well and the Moths of the Forgotten Moon can both deliver, and bring people to, black forgotten fates.

Most actual conspirators are careful not to speak secrets under the Forgotten Moon and the majority of secrets lost and found are those of children. But, people being what they are, you never know…


Situations

* A Moon Marriage taking place beneath the Forgotten Moon.
* A village full of people; distant family members are visiting each other.
* An empty village where almost everyone has gone of to visit somewhere else.
* The return of a long-thought-lost son or daughter has erupted into social drama.
* Someone claims to have received a secret from the ancient past and is looking for help in exploiting it.
* A dark secret heard by a child leaves a village in uproar as everyone tries to work out who’s it is.


With the end of the Forgotten Moon, we return again to the Fine Gackling Moon as the cycle of the month repeats.





1. Narcissolis 

South of Goblin Town, between the Umber Woods and the Incoherent Isles, pressed against the great Reach itself is Narcissolis, Capital of the Moonlands, the city with a wall of glass.

Narcissolis is like no other city. Bound within its wall and beyond its glass gates lies a riot of form and colour more alike to an ever-evolving painting, or a collage of buildings, each torn from different pictures at a different time.

Even the ‘ordinary’ people of Narcissolis are costumed and made up in the most vibrant colours and starkest lines, so that they seem more like people from an image, or images of people. This makes them hard to distinguish from the Picts who walk the cities streets; painted people from the painted plain or traders from the Pigment River. Amongst them walk Goblins from Goblin Town or the Large Goblin Collider, Men; Ridgedwellers from the peaks of the Crazed Theigns, with perhaps a few hidden Cryomaniacs amongst them, Asbestos Bedouin riding Yellow Clinkerskippers and Blurred tribesmen from the Incoherent Isles. Here also are found Matte-Black Penumbeetles and translucent Invisibeetles, AntiGoblins, labouring in Goblin-Proof encounter suits and Opal-winged Bat-Men from the City of Visible Grief. The Bat-Men may have Invisible assistants with them, it is hard to tell.

Pressed against the glass wall (the city needs to be seen), are the eyeburning colours and incoherent shapes of the Clashing Slums. Beyond these rise gradually-more-sane and beautiful constructions in styles ranging from Goblin-Gothic to Alien-Modernist, Hive Style, Neo-Victorian, Generican, Pseudo-Ottoman, Sinochure, Cyclopean, Hypnagogic, Ethereal and Fae. Its people claim Narcissolis has at least one example of every style of architecture which reality can hold.

Eventually come the Harmonious Rue, some of the most beautiful built environments in any cosmos and rising above these, the peaks of the Great Imaginings. 

At the centre of Narcissolis, visible from everywhere, is The Lathe, a huge art-deco shard and Palace of the Illusory Lords, flashing either fiery red beneath the rising sun, or pale white as it sets.



The City is a Narcissist

Narcissolis is an illusion. It spreads and survives based on the belief placed in its existence. 

If everyone who knew about Narcissolis were to instantly forget it was there – poof. It would disappear in a fragment of time.

The city spreads its own fame as a form of self-defence. The reason visitors are so welcome, that everyone is so eager for you to have a unique experience and that tales and stories of its wonder appear all over reality, is that these things are deliberately organised and heavily invested in by the people of Narcissolis.

Though Narcissolis is inviolate, it requires continuity of memory and imagination to survive. Its glass wall is unbreakable, so long as the majority of its inhabitants believe it is. When conquered, its conquerors desire Narcissolis so much that they renew it in its own destruction. It can be annihilated only if forgotten but warps physically in times of hysteria or changed belief. 

To attack, or alter it, is as much a grand performance as it is anything else.

The chief enemies of Narcissolis are the Apocalypse Wasps (enemies of all that lives), the Blurred Raiders from the Incoherent Isles, its own rulers the Illusory Lords, and anyone not paying attention to it.




A City of Information

Since the city itself is a performance, new parts can only be constructed by a kind of mass-persuasion.

Building sites are cubes of big black sheets over the ‘buildings’ being created or demolished. The builders are performers elaborately staging the process of construction.  Materials are brought in in vast quantities (actually invisibly cycled out in the night and brought in again). Shouts and gusts of smoke and dust spout forth from under the sheet. Burly workmen file out on lunch breaks and take up space in nearby cafes, making noise. 

Major new buildings have staged controversies in which Nimbys object to the architecture, aesthetic, placement or some other element, causing protests and arguments. Sometimes these cross over with real, actual protests. Financial and political scandals can be performed, sending shockwaves through the city as embezzlement or corruption is exposed or denied. 

Every building has some kind of human interest story behind it; a lost dog, someone allegedly buried in the foundations by mistake, a strange fetish of the architect, or some other factoid which a local can inform you of as you pass. 

All of these things act as a lock on the communal memory of the place. It is easy to believe that something large is being made.

There is nothing happening behind the sheet. But if people believe in the building, whether they hate it or love it, when the sheet comes down, it will be there.

So does Narcissolis expand, on the bases of shared memory and belief.




 



The People of Narcissolis

Everyone is eager to talk, especially to talk about the city. Everybody wants you to see their house.

The popular aesthetic turns splendiferous. It’s very bad in Narcissolis to 'blend into the crowd'. Everyone wears makeup to increase the definition and specific nature of their face. They look a little like cell-shaded animation. 

Everyone wears remarkable clothes which are specific to their personality, history and aesthetic. Clothes are tuned to behaviour, personality and role with the intention that no-one should be easy to forget. Small mirrors are often worn as decoration.

No-one wears a uniform, or to be more precise, no-one wears the same uniform. It’s as if people are cosplaying as themselves.

Behaviour is fancy and performative. Social networks are Byzantine and hysterical. Hierarchies are invisible. 

People in Narcissolis are valued for individuality and their ability to generate strong, specific memories. Or conversely, for simply having a very good memory. Competition over experience and originality makes Narcissolis a vortex for cultural products, 'events' and stories, drawing them in from all over the world.

Still, the Citizens are generous, egalitarian, tolerant and welcoming of newcomers.  Every pair of eyes and every witnessing mind, and every story of the city spread far and wide, is another small brick in the bulwark of its fragile existence.

They want you to have a memorable time here - an adventure. They are little overly insistent on it actually.

They also have a huge respect for imagination and the arts, which are also very ruthlessly controlled. The city is itself a performance and the power to persuade en-masse is in Narcissolis, the power to create and destroy.

Those with this capacity are treated like Soviet Ambassadors; afforded very high status, treated with respect, continually watched, always followed and carefully controlled.

Every news-sheet, performance, announcement, article, book and even state-sanctioned rumour, is carefully censored by the cities Thought Controllers, who are also effectively its architects.

The Illusory Lords

It is no small thing to be ruled by an unbeatable genius, though they be mad, and imaginary.

The rulers of Narcissolis, and thence of the Moonlands, exist only as thought-forms. 

Occupying the top of The Lathe in the centre of the city, they communicate with their people, citizens and functionaries by leaving orders, policies, memorandums and instructions written at the bottom of tankards, crayoned onto the bases of plates, stuffed into shoes, stitched into the lining of jackets, scrawled with chalk on the backs of broad-shouldered men, pinned inside wigs to be found when lifted to scratch, or tied to the leg of a bird feeds from the hand.

All of the people of Narcissolis live in absolute terror of whichever brilliant tyrant currently rules the city.

Though they are invariably completely mad, the Illusory Lords can achieve feats of perception, deception, action and analysis that would baffle ordinary actually-existing minds. They can respond to any event anywhere in the city (albeit indirectly) and their genius-level prognostications mean that, though tyrannical, Narcissolis always retains the edge in its military and economic relationships.

Being unkillable, and impossible to remove from government by ordinary means (since they do not exist), an Illusory Lord can only be deposed by another like themselves.

First the rule of the Illusory Lord must become intolerable to the people of Narcissolis. The forces of the old regime begin to spiral out of control. Denunciations, corruption, beheadings and tabloid journalism proliferate. 

Then, emerging from rumour and myth, the concept of a revolutionary leader can take root.

This cannot be centralised or planned, it must spring from the unpredictable chaos of daily life in the city, from the unconsidered minds of the people.

At first, actions and qualities are assigned to the new hope of Narcissolis; they are intelligent, reclusive, with radical new ideas. They are fearless, neurasthenic, perhaps they like oranges. They are a revolutionary, or a counter-revolutionary. They head a minority faction. They act from the shadows. They have a plan. 

They are placeless. The forces of the old regime seek them, but they cannot be found. No-one has seen them directly but there are distant reports. Then third-hand accounts -  a friend of a friend saw them in a public place. They were here yesterday. They are in the next street, in the next building. You hear them moving in the next room. The door moves.

But now, a now that is no now, it is already too late, the revolution took place yesterday, or the day before. There was chaos in the streets. There is a new regime now, they make laws, their face is on coins, stamps and post-boxes. The old regime must be deposed of, secured, kept safely away. 

The bodies of the old Illusory Lord are transported in great state out through Goblin Town, to the Necropolis of Glass, where they are interned in sacred Krystaphagi, hopefully forever.

So goes regime change in Narcissolis.



Crime Mimes, Dark Memory Formation and The Mirror Masters

Like every city, Narcissolis has a dark side. Unlike others, it has some elements unique to its particular nature. 

'Crime Mimes' perform specific acts in a convincing manner in order to subtly or strongly alter Narcissolis so they might gain access to private places, or perform stranger and more abstruse alterations of reality.

Miming and acting are heavily controlled within the city limits.

Looked down on by bourgeoise society but tacitly allowed, is a parallel subculture of Dark Memory Formation. Nothing seals in the memory of a place like death and trauma, and in Narcissolis, attention and memory are the strongest currency there is.

Those transgressive but semi-public elements include grand guignol, murder stories, ghost tours and fake snuff performance provocations.

These semi-legal, but officially unpoliced, events are intended to act as a safety-valve. The population can express its less pro-social urges and the most effective dark performers can be siphoned away from invisible networks of powers.  

Beneath this are rumours, currents of darkness and death. There are dark suspicions that serial killers who commit the most graphic, exceptional and memorable crimes are allowed to get away with it, or at least, not chased quite as fervently as they could be, to the extent that the police force sometimes is forced to publish its accounts just to prove it is finding overtime for catch particular killers.

Narcissolis, like every city, has it’s more traditional crimes. Theft, extortion, bribery, corruption, drugs, fraud and every other kind of vice are engaged in. The criminal networks of Narcissolis spread all over the Moonlands and beyond. 

The heads of these networks are called the Mirror Masters.

These are individuals who were caught in mirrors while illegally invading the Necropolis of Glass. Though this is vastly illegal and dangerous in Narcissolis (no-one wants a 'deceased' Illusory Lord getting out), nevertheless, meeting a Mirror Master, or being involved with a crime or conspiracy, is a deeply memorable event. And the Masters themselves, being trapped in the mirrors, can do nothing other than observe Narcissolis. Not only that, but they must investigate and memorise and explore its darker and less-visited corners, and absorb themselves deeply in its built geography and processes, something of great use to the city.


Mind Holes

Building belief is complex and involved, building communal belief almost as difficult as designing a real thing.

You can't just imagine whatever you like and make it exist, you have to believe it, and the strength of your belief has to strongly outweigh the beliefs of anyone else about the same space.

But some people have a great surfeit of belief, children, fanatics, the unwise and the insane, and if one of those people gains access to an ignored, forgotten or un-shaped part of the Imaginary City, things can go completely to shit.

Minds alone can collapse consensus reality and open recursive burrow-holes in the world

Sincere, but fervent beliefs, like those of schizophrenic conspiracy theorists, the more pleasing but still-dangerous imaginings of children, or the musty, unreal, or hyper-bright memory-realms of the abandoned old, can open the way to halls of paranoid imaginings - the vast conspiracies contained in terrified minds boil into existence behind cupboard doors or under manholes.

This is very dangerous, and very rare.

'Popping' childish sub-realms is a common parenting skill in the Imaginary City. Invading and shutting down schizophrenic or dementia-bored mind-labyrinths and alter-realms a more serious and often more dangerous business.







Architecture and The Attention Economy

Buildings in Narcissolis can be constructed from almost any conceivable material, in any conceivable style - so long as they are remembered. So they compete with each other for the attention and memory of the observer.

This leads to complex ecologies of attention and aesthetic.



The Clashing Slums

The slums of Narcissolis are as great and magnificent as the monumental centres of other cities. They are slums because they clash.

Buildings in the slums almost at war with each other in their need for attention and memory - competing in brightness, loudness, discordancy, strangeness or unlikely nature.

This Hobbsean architectural perma-conflict means everything has to be even more bright and even more ridiculous and 'novel' to outshine everything else. This results in a staggering eye-burning parade of wild forms and deranged colours and materials, and a rapid turnover of buildings as places, as distinctive as they are individual, are simply lost and forgotten, not blending in but ignored in the discordancy.


The Duelling Streets

Here, the architectural competition between buildings has become a kind of exchange of attention so that the styles and forms, while still opposing one another, also re-enforce one another in opposition. Still clashing but not a discordant miscellany.

Here it is easy to remember, for instance, the palace of bone opposite the circus of sausages, the prism tower facing the cumulo-nimbus arcology, the church of pink marble opposite the marble rose.

Here is chaos, and extreme novelty, but also a form of reciprocity of thought, and the development of a memory and attention system that only grows more complex.



The Harmonious Rue

Rare, prized and dangerous to live in, these streets are extremely high-status, though their instability means that many governmental buildings are on discordant or duelling streets instead, or crammed dangerously into the Lathe.

Radically, as in music, the individual parts of a harmony are often not memorable or surprising on their own, but instead support and sustain one another, flowing into each other to create a continuous, pleasing, unexpected but correct and fitting surprise of form and beauty, each element unique and each one part of the whole.

These streets are the high art of Narcissolis and some of the most beautiful places to exist anywhere.

Unfortunately, as with any harmony, the construction is delicate. One small un-noticed flaw, and disharmony can creep in, poisoning whole streets as-one, leading to disaster.



The Great Imaginings and The Lathe

It’s hard, in Narcissolis, for buildings to be very tall and still useable. Creators can imagine shapes and known materials but it’s difficult to develop and precisely imagine the mechanisms for elevators. A handful of tall buildings have them, drawn on winches turned by remarkable things

The Lathe, for instance, has a giant winch turned by painted elephants and employs a team of engineers to imagine, observe and remember its mechanisms.

Bylaws say that each new elevator must be powered by a distinctly different, and memorable method, so as not to infringe on those of others. (Though this is generally considered a deliberate tool of suppression to maintain the status of the Great Imaginings).

The Lathe itself, palace of the illusory lords, is a giant art-deco spire in the centre of the city.  Supporting opal buttresses spread out over and into the city like spider limbs. The east side of the Lathe is stained and etched pale red in patterns of flame so that in dawn, it flashes as if on fire as the sun rises. The west side is similarly etched with curling waves in blue, but the red light of sunset reacts strangely with the colour to make it gleam pale white as night falls. Inside, floors and departments become more frightening, symbolic and unreal as you go up, transforming to dark theatre or enacted nightmares. No one ever goes to the top.



Orders from the Illusory Lord


NAME
MANNER
METHOD
ORDER FOR PCS
1
Dame Pain
Obsessed with Theft
Delivered verbally by Minah bird.
Find the 'Sorcerer of Eggs' on Rue Zuh and steal his face.
2
Lord Unlikely
Paranoid, accusative
Skreech Owls vomit up parchments.
Assassinate 'Glass Jack', Mirror King of the Chromatic Slums.
3
Prince Remover
Seeks invisible creatures
Reverse-pickpocketed origami animals.
Uncover the conspiracy on Iridescent Lane before the next moon.
4
Queen Sigma Pi
Controls everyones debts
Hidden in, or made of, food and drink.
Infiltrate the Pict-club on the Rue Supreme and discover its secret.
5
Reasons Tribune
Rigid security panopticon
Stapled to your bill for goods or services.
Destroy the child-derived mind-hole hidden in the Rue Azul, quickly.
6
Thin-Skin-Hidden
Bilious, friendly, corrupt
Etched microscopically into spectacle lenses.
Steal the notes of 'Zig-Zag' the fugitive Cryomaniac, without detection.
7
The Emergent One
Sets the weak against strong
A network of shadows cast from moving sources.
Shadow the Goblin 'Gleaming Ratspike' and invisibly disrupt their schemes.
8
First Cuttlefish
Obsessive cult of personality
Words scrawled passers-by form order in crowds.
Investigate and expose the Dark Memory Formation Ring at the Theatre Bile.
9
South-Barking Dog
Lengthy bullet-pointed demands
Code-knotted floss hidden in hair while asleep.
Deliver this Bristly Pig back to its home village on the Whetstone Ridge.
10
The Optimising Eye
Demands endless tiring carnivals
Note stuck to bottom of shoe like toilet paper.
Frame yourselves for the murder of your ally (**), then expose the true threat.
11
Grand Madame Scalp
Precise gerontocracy, by exact hour
Found written on your own skin when you undress.
Find the Apple Smugglers on the Rue Jardin and bring them to justice, publicly.
12
Applicant to Peace
Bumbling, vague, happily murderous
Etched on falling leaf that drifts into your hand.
An Apocalypse Wasp has been frozen in ice, you must transport it to Pitville for study.
13
Dark Arcturus Dark
Mercantile, everything has a price
Carved into cannonball rolling slowly towards you.
A Despiser of Ash has smuggled as spark of the Anaesthetic Fire into Narcissolis, get that spark.
14
The Prince of Knives
Curfew, checkpoints and wall murals
Found stitched into uncomfortable seam in clothes.
Investigate a schizophrenic Mind Hole in the Street of Flesh and Bone, bring back the spider inside.
15
Scalpel of the Horde
Sectarian, worried about the 'other'
Scrawled on your pillow in crayon, found when waking.
Protect'Argun Shoal' visting headsman of the SkienWeaver Tribe, from assassination, but do it in disguise.
16
The Unspeaking Crown
Bread, Circuses and Hand to Hand combat
High-velocity pneumatic darts. Painful, codes within.
Find the secret room in the Great Imagining of The Pearlescent Dream, record (but do not touch) its contents.
17
The Restorer of Rights
Meta-Bureaucrat, infinite fillable forms
Spoken separately by three, each knows only one third.
The abstract sinister Pict Goya Van-Joy is visiting Narcissolis, make sure they experience a remarkable event.
18
Judge Fragmentation Round
Insane logician, records and reasons please
Brutally inserted into recent memory with psychic might.
Explore one of the Utopian Ruins on the Painted Plain, learn what you can and make a show of it back in Narcissolis.
19
The Great Unreasoning Thief
Highly efficient, pushes personal boundaries
On the inside-wrapping of a chance-encountered consumable.
Invent, or discover a way to repair the great cracked Guardian Lenses which bracket the Reach outside the cities wall.
20
Prior of the Choir of the General Will
Insinuating, complimentary, systemic poisoner
Found jammed in wall crack when investigating weird sound.
Soon, invisible assassins from the City of Visible Grief, will attack an simple house on the Street of Gleams, defend it.